everybody this has been chef level up
Tut's in this tutorial I am going to
introduce you to field sets a handy
features data me fuel sets allow you to
control which fields are available when
you're creating and editing content so
for example let me go ahead and log into
our site here and I'll show you what
we're talking about so I'm gonna go
ahead and open up just a page here I
feel we do a new page a little bit
easier so this had a page here and right
here actually we're starting to see the
beginning of what's something that gets
created when you use and create your own
field sets the availability here of
creating a standard page and then also
all the fields that are available so
we're seeing title slug template in the
content and that's it so now let's go
ahead and look at the field set file
that controls this page and then what
we'll do in this tutorial is add a new
field so go ahead and log in through FTP
if you're working locally go to the
route where your static site is
installed and go into the config
directory and there you will see another
directory called field sets go into that
and by default there's two items here
there's a page in a post the posts
refers to the default blog entry that's
that's enabled or in on installation and
then the page so we're gonna actually go
into the page and edit it I'm gonna go
ahead and open this up in sublime text
this is a gamble file so indention is
important here what we're gonna see here
is that it starts off in this case with
a field called title and then it's
assigned just at a standard page so when
we hit this we're seeing standard page
here that's coming from this so this is
sort of like creating a content type in
a way but field sets you can create
multiple field sets and apply them to
you know multiple types and so it's it's
they're not like exclusive or so here we
see the opening of fields and now we've
seen we're seeing here the three fields
that are available for a page by default
a title a template and the content so
one thing that we're not seeing is the
slug that's used by the system you
notice that some of the fields here have
different settings from other so it sort
of depends on you know whether or not
you want to given instructions or not or
if it's if you want to assign a default
value or if it's required or not you
know you don't have to you know fill out
all these attributes for everyone but
the one that's sort of important is the
type so under content we're seeing a
type of market up which is this editor
here which uses that language if we
could also we could make it just a
simple text area
so now it's just a text area we could
use redactor redactor is a jquery html5
editor which is kind of nice
so maybe able to use this and what we
want to do is create a new custom field
so let's do this let's create a note
another one we'll call it sub and the
display is gonna be sub headline default
kind of blank enter a so what's
important about this here is this is the
template tag so once we get into theming
it's this that goes in between the
double curly braces so let's go ahead
and hit save go back over to our site
refresh and now here sub headline say I
want sab hug sub headline to be move
towards the top
well order is important here so I can
move it above template
it's save and now it's above time blood
it's not above title that's always the
first thing and again slug is another
system field so I'm going to clean that
up but hit save and that's it now we
have created our own new custom field in
the next tutorial I'm going to go
through some of the other custom field
types thanks a lot for watching and be
sure to follow us on twitter at level up
tots